hello this story is about a man who has
lived for 14 000 years and constantly
change
places every 10 years when people start
to notice he haven't aged
let's see what happens when he decides
to reveal to his colleagues the true
reason he is leaving
the movie begins with professor john
oldman packing his belongings onto his
truck
preparing to move to a new home his
colleagues show up to without informing
him
they came to give him a farewell party
everyone goes inside the house while
having some talking
one of john's colleague dan says so you
are leaving suddenly
is there any problem john says no dan
getting more curious says where are you
going after a decade of professorship
it would be wise to do this 10 years
before but why now
another colleague edith says he hasn't
aged in 10 years
all the lecturers want to know the
secret john says that he just likes to
move on now and then it's a personal
thing so i have to go
john had a whiskey and they all wish
long life and good fortune to john and
drink the whiskey
art asking what to do for the rest of
the afternoon dan finds a tool which is
000 to 11 500 years old belonging to
magdalenian culture
also called upper paleolithic everyone
amazed to see it
here john seems to be bit worried and
hairy saying that you're creating a
mystery here
you have something to say so say it john
says i wanted to say something i will
ask you a silly question
what if a man from upper paleolithic
survives till the present day and never
died
dan says it's an interesting idea are
you writing a science friction story
john's saying let's say i am what would
he be like harry saying pretty tired
dan says seriously speaking he would
live for 14 000 years and could be like
any of us because there are no anatomic
differences in assuming normal
intelligence
we think man from upper paleolithic was
as intelligence as we are
but he didn't know much but john's man
would have learned as the race learned
and in fact if he had an inquiry in mind
his knowledge would be astonishing
asking to have a look at it if he do
write a book when linda who is a student
of art jenkins asks what would keep him
alive
harry who is a biologist says a human
body is designed and can live for 190
years but most abuse died due to slow
poisoning
but in science friction terms if a human
body functioned perfectly and regenerate
cells perfect then he could live for
thousands of years because in 24 hours
all the cells in pancreas are changed
stomach lining in three days in the
whole body in seven years
if his body does a perfect detox perfect
renewal then he could duck decay
anything is possible a time was there
when people used to believe in magic and
now in science
there was also a time when columbus went
to find new route to india and everyone
said he is mad
john says i had chance to sail with
columbus was pretty sure the earth was
round but at that point i thought he
might fall from edge at some place
john's colleagues look surprised harry
says so you are a very old cro-magnon
living until the present
john makes a weird sound and everyone
starts laughing
sandy who went to take something to eat
comes and asks what happened and art
says that john is telling that is 14 000
years old and sandy says come on john
you don't look a day over 900.
everyone finds this interesting and
wants to listen more
john says every 10 years or so people
would start to notice that i don't age
so i move on i aged till about 35 years
i ended up leaving my group they saw me
as magical i didn't have to fight for it
then fear came they chased me away they
thought that i was stealing their lives
away to stay young
he says that he doesn't remember
everything it's selective memory
the high points the low points traumas
you remember them forever
i kept getting chased because i wouldn't
die so i got hang of changing groups and
got idea of periodically moving on
the first 2000 years were cold it was
warmer at lower terrains
with time the glaciers started melting
and the sea started to get visible and
the continents were separated by rising
seas
art says you will get this in any
textbook john says
through books i was able to recollect my
memories else it is impossible to
remember
everything for 14 000 years linda asks
were you curious where we all came from
john says we would look up at the sky
and wonder
there's got to be some big guys up there
and it's all down here
at first i thought there was something
wrong with me maybe i was a bad guy for
not dying
then i began to wonder if i was cursed
or perhaps blessed and i thought maybe i
had a mission
i think it just happened linda asks why
you can't remember where you are from
geography hasn't changed i learnt that
john says i migrated through an endless
flat space full of endless new things
forests mountains tundra canyons my
memory sees what i saw then
my eyes see freeways urban sprawl
earlier on the world got bigger and
bigger
i've been busted a few times spent a
year in jail for faking a government
application
art says an answer for every question
except one john
why are you doing this jon says that i
wanted to say goodbye to you as me
not what you thought i was art thinks
that jon has some serious problem and
goes to a room
john starts to move some boxes and dan
asks if he has any relic
artifact reminding you of your early
life like this may be
john explains if you lived a 100 1000
years would you still have this
what would cause you to keep it even
with you don't have the concept of
beginning
it will be gone lost no i don't have
artifacts keep that
john moves the boxes out and everyone
confused if he is serious
harry searching for any hidden mic or
camera and arc calling dr will gruber
a psychiatry professor informing how
crazy john is acting and asks him to
come as soon as possible
sandy saying john that she loved him
asking if he could love him
john's saying he cares for her fond of
her and certainly attracted to her
and says now you know what you would be
getting into
you and any children will age but i
won't she says that my parents got
separated before i was born and my
mother's second marriage lasted for
whole three years and says there's
deaths
illness acts of god no one knows how
long they have
i love you will take whatever you can
give john says
like 10 years then the scene suddenly
cuts to them entering the house and
harry grabs him from behind and john
defends himself and when asked to harry
why he did it
he says that he wanted to check john's
reflexes john says that he don't have
eyes on back of his head and he is not
in any way a superman
some saying they still have questions
art asking if he remembers any of his
original language
john says that he remembers a little he
says one thing hasn't changed and
whistle's looking at sandy
linda asks if he did any cave art john
says his friend used to do a pretty good
drawing of the animals they hoped to
find to eat
linda asks if this is why all you
students say your knowledge of history
is so amazing
john says no that's mostly based on
study it's one man
one place at a time my solitary
viewpoint of a world i knew nothing
about
dan asking to talk about what he did
know about
jon continues next few thousand years it
got warmer
art saying next few thousand years i
know you're guessing
john says you can't get there from here
art we hunted reindeer
mammoths ark continues bison horses
the climate changed and you got the idea
of growing food rather than gathering it
raising animals rather than hunting it
come on john it's out of any textbook
john says even yours you got most of it
right
eventually i headed to the east thinking
it might be warmer there
i got curious about the world i got the
hang of moving alone and fitting him
where i wanted to
it was around beginning of bronze age i
followed the trade routes from the east
traded copper tin learning new languages
as i went
everywhere creation myths new gods
so many so different i finally realized
that it was probably all a lie
so i was sumerian for two thousand years
and finally babylonian
moving on was easier as hunter-gatherer
difficult as villages merged
tougher in city-states where authority
was centralized
strangers were suspect it seemed as
though i was always moving on
i learned some tricks even faked my
death couple of times
i continued east to india luckily at
that time i met buddha
most extraordinary man i have ever known
he thought me things i never thought
about before so i studied with him until
he died
he knew there was something different
about me i never told him
art asks that you or you tell this to us
we might tell this to everyone
john says that it would vanish in
disbelief even if i made you believe me
in a month you wouldn't
some of you will call me psycho and some
will be angry
some of them really gets angry by all
this
now will arrives remember that art had
called him because of how john was
acting
we'll ask so you're a caveman john says
that he was a cro-magnon
will asks when he realized that john
says that when a cro-magnon was first
identified
when anthropologists gave them a name i
had mine
will asks if he has ever been ill in
this enormous lifetime
john says that in prehistory i can't
tell you maybe pneumonia once or twice
but in last few hundred years i got an
over typhoid yellow fever
small pox i have survived the black
plagues they ask you had small
pox but you don't have scar john says i
don't scar
harry asks john to take medical tests
and it can prove what he is saying but
jon says he doesn't want to prove it
afraid that he might go into a stay for
a thousand years while cigarette smoking
men tried to figure me out
harry asks if he thinks he would betray
him in any way
jon says walls have ears dan asks you
would have studied a great deal
john says i have 10 degrees including
all of yours except wills
that's over a span of 170 years i got my
biology degree at oxford in 1840
we knew so little at that time same in
other areas i can't keep up with the new
stuff that comes along
no one can not even the specialist dan
says i see your point john
no matter how long a man lives he can't
be advance of his times
he can't know more than the best of the
race knows john says that living 14
000 years didn't make him genius it just
had time
will says people go around armed these
days if i shot you john
would you survive this are you immortal
john says i never said i'm immortal
just old i might die will asks have you
ever wished it would end
john says no some people come to pick up
the furniture for charity jon says to
take them but to leave one couch for
ladies and the elderly
will says that some of your early
fellows feared you were stealing their
lives
have you thought perhaps you were
perhaps you are there have always been
legends of such a thing
a creature not quiet human taking not
the blood but the life force itself
unconsciously perhaps by some biological
or psychic mechanism that we can only
guess at
i'm not saying you would do such a thing
deliberately
i'm not saying that you would even know
how to would you john
asks so you believe me now will says i'm
only exploring what you have said
whether i believe it or not is of no
importance but if it were true
is there one among us who would not feel
envy you told us of yourself john
can you imagine how we feel john says i
never thought of that
the people who came to collect the
furniture leaves will says that you
might be bored
perhaps lonely because your heart cannot
keep its treasures
is that what you're doing have you led a
wrongful life
well then perhaps it is time to die he
takes out a revolver and points to john
and says a shot to the arm perhaps we
could watch it heal
what exactly would happen dan telling to
give the gun
will leave saying that he has work to do
john is told that will's wife passed
away yesterday because of cancer
john realized will is in pain because
his wife's death so he runs to apologize
and asks the revolver
well gives his revolver john sees that
there is no bullet in that revolver
jon comes back inside everyone saying
that they want to hear more
dan asks could there be others like you
john says i met a man in 1600s
i thought he was like me so i told him
he said yes but from another time
another place we talked for two days it
was all pretty convincing but we
couldn't be
sure we each confirmed what the other
said but how do we know if the
confirmation was genuine or an echo
we parted agreeing to keep in touch of
course we didn't in 200 years later i
thought i saw him in a train station
lost him in the crowd dan asks if he is
religious
john says i don't follow any religion
long time ago i did like most people
dan asks if he believe in god john says
i have no need for that hypothesis
he may be around though dan asks did you
ever meet any person from our religious
history
a biblical figure john says in a way
they ask who
john says we should skip this one this
is going in a direction that i didn't
expect
i hoped it wouldn't we call it a night
everyone forces him to tell
john says the entire bible is mostly a
myth and allegory with some basis in
historical events
the truth is so simple the new testament
in 100 words or less
you ready edith who firmly believes in
bible says i don't think i want to hear
this
the new testament is sacrilege everyone
convinces her to sit down
harry says all right john hit us with
the short form
john says guy met the buddha liked what
he heard
thought about it for a while say 500
years while he returned to the
mediterranean
became an etruscan seeped into the roman
empire
he didn't like what they became a giant
killing machine he went to the near east
thinking why not pass the buddha's
teachings on in a modern form
so he tried one dissident against rome
rome one
the rest is history well sort of a lot
of fairy tales mixed in
edith says i knew it he's saying he was
christ john says ho no
that's the medal they pinned on jesus to
fulfill prophecy
dan asks about the crucifixion john says
that he blocked the pain
as he had learned to do in tibet and
india he also learned to slow his body
processes down to the point where they
were undetectable
they thought he was dead so his
followers pulled him from the cross
placed him in a cave his body normalized
as he has trained it to
he attempted to go away undetected but
some devotees were standing watch
tried to explain they were ecstatic thus
i was resurrected and i ascended to
central europe to get away as far as
possible
art asks to show his wrists john says i
don't scar
john also compares pagan mythology with
christianity
dan says the early christian leaders
they threw away hebrew manuscripts and
borrowed from pagan sources all over the
place
he also says that jesus and buddha
teaching mean the same thing
kindness tolerance brotherhood love
john says that's what i taught but later
many stories were created
priests created heaven and hell so they
can rule through seduction and terror
well who left before comes back and says
that i drove for a while
then sat for a while and i'm so ashamed
but i still don't believe you john
you need help john taking him inside
says everyone needs help
will saying well some more than others
they say to what happened when he wasn't
there
art asks about the name jesus john says
i called myself john
i almost always do as tales of the
resurrection spread
the name was confused with the hebrew yo
canon meaning
god is gracious my stay on earth was
seen as divine proof of immortality
that lead to god as salvation or hebrew
yahshua
which in translation became my proper
name changing to late greek
lesson then to late latin lisas and
finally medieval latin
jesus and it was a wonder to watch it
all happen
dan asks then you didn't claim to be the
son of god
john says i said i had a master that was
greater than myself
i never said he was my father i wanted
to teach what i learned
i never claimed to be king of the jews i
never walked on water
i never raised the dead i never spoke of
divine except in the sense human
goodness on earth
i did do a little healing with some
eastern medicine i'd learned
that's it i did some teaching on a hill
one day not that many people stayed
i gave them one choice who do you think
i am i'm giving you one
edith gets very emotional and starts
crying many of them almost believing
will says to stop this it's gone too far
these people are very upset
i don't believe you are mad but what
you're saying is not true
the time has come when you must admit
this is a hoax he demands to tell these
people the truth
a few moments of silence and then jon
says it was all a story
everyone gets disappointed john says you
gave me the idea
all of you edith said i never age dan
gave me the book on early man
i got the notion i ran it past you to
check your reactions
and i took it too far i had the perfect
audience
anthropologist archaeologist christian
literalist
a psychologist everyone gets angry sad
and disappointed and starts leaving
sandy still believes that what john was
saying was true since he won't use
people or abuse their good will and
intelligence
i wanna know what was your real name my
name was always john
i only changed my surname he named some
of them he also says
about 60 years ago when i was teaching
at harvard
i was john t pardy well who was not
believing in john
listens this and is shocked he says you
did not teach chemistry
i do not believe you john says your
mother's name was nola
he breaks and wants to reject this and
asks my dog's name
we had him before i was born john says
woofy which was true and will becomes
very emotional
you abandoned us sorry i had to move on
will has an emotional breakdown and gets
a heart attack
ambulance is called and will's dead body
is taken
sandy says you never saw your grown
child die before john says he hadn't
takes his car and drives to the road and
stops and waits
he was waiting for sandy and sandy
decides to go with him
the story ends thanks for watching and i
hope you all liked this movie and tell
me any movie that you want me to explain
[Music]
you